# THE BIGGGEST PICTURE OF THEM ALL
Shes a co-founder.

Talking about people from communities that have been targeted by deep learning tools "having the ability to use them too" that have been subjected to disproportional harassment. Using tech against those most vulnerable is terrible. With great power comes great responsibility. These things should not be in the hands of a few. Open source it does not mean everyone will be able to learn and leverage it, however. It just means its out there if people can do so.

How do we train the local barber shop owner to leverage AI? Can we? Is it training they need or programs built to help the average barbershop owner? Do we need to spend the time making them a dashboard with buttons they can push and allow them the opportunity to waste some time on their own and call it empowering technology at the lowest level? No. There needs to be appreciation here. The problem is that people think they are superman because they have the smart phone in their hand and can fly. People do freak out when you say hey, here, do the math... Reality is that it is the phone in their hand that is smart, and more often than not not the person holding it. WE have to revise THEIR mentality as a society. 

When I went back to school at thirty something with two kids and began the process of sleep deprivation, it was MY choice to not take that calculus final without my TI-84 like everyone else did. Why? I thought it would make me smarter. I wanted to be able to leverage that later. Maybe I could have scored higher if I had programmed all the formulas into the machine and simply recalled what I needed. I still missed an 'A' by just a few points. WHATEVER, its a piece of paper. Sleep deprivation inhibits long term memory transference just as well as coffee and other things also do. Some people just plain out have gifts. Our education system is flawed. People are flawed. We retain things we try, want, and need to at different levels. Why do we remember our best friends number thats in speed dial like everyone elses? Iteration brings these things to the front of the lobe too. Humans have to really step out of their comfort zone and commit to understanding these type of things and not get stuck in the trap. That is REAL TALK. Malama Ka Aina braddah.