# Quandl and Secret Data Sets tangent on iron ore
Tammer Kamel from Quandl 2017 on how to find hedge funds yourself. The data sets are there to know anything about the economy. So we dont have to do insider trading to know important stock information to make decisions. Want to know about iron ore coming out the ground from Brazil? Pull AIS data out the radiowaves. Airplane transponders or data from gps to forceast arrival times, etc. Why not track corporate private jets? Like gps coordinates for tuna fisherman on a pile of bait in the mid atlantic does not want their payload location broadcasted, rich people want to mask their identity and location. So mask off these trivial TLS and get with it. Maybe we wish to understand MNA activity. Price point? Practicioners are concerned with certain sectors of data. I want to know about underwater gps information like where the shipwreck is, then deduce things like maybe there is sufficient bait to warrant schools of fish in that particular area- maybe even call out species and frequency of numbers. Apply this to the corporate world? Now knowledge indeed is power.

## Partners
Quandl had to "partner" with the companies that held individual sets. Enough partners with similar data sets = accuracy in projections. For the iron ore problem, find out where all the ships are in the world, mesh that with geospatial data for all the ports, then figure out what ports the miners use. Then based off the amount of ships entering port we can deduce how much iron ore is being produced by those miners. Then to anticiapte the market value for the company we look at quarterly releases, and if we were say trading stocks, we could look at these numbers now to anticipate how much stock we will buy today- especially if we know production just jumped say over a certain threshold percentage of the mesh parameters we set up. 2017 data set was pretty expensive- why because the someone that uses the right features to produce the correct future projections are crushing it. Price of that data is extremely valuable vs the potential gains on the stock market. What do we want to make as developers? The money on the market or the data sets? I want knowledge. Period. Money- not so much. What do you have to sacrifice to get it? A few neural networks and a few hours conjuring up the right feature set and feasability constraints? A couple more added linear equations, and not accidentally using the wrong label? Robinhood API to short trade. Fully trade with your own algorithm.

## Business exhust data
Good companies get data-centric or are at best, excluded from the acquisition process if your model is geared to produce it and sell out. Take data measurements about everything around you to run your business, in essence. Insurance companys policies on new cars- what are people insuring? Watch out for gps here if you like to drive fast, that csv file tells stopping distances, and can cross refrence speed limit zones, bladi blah, you pay more money and you dont even know why... "Ok, onstar, call triple A for me..." Tammers take however, was the implicit counting of new car sales with the writing of policies. He's creating a real time dataset of car sales off of it. How accurate is that model? How many F150's got sold today? The common goal here is to find and leverage data that is not already being used by wall street- that's not trivial data. Is a particular insurance company losing market share of new sales? Whoa now. Public insurance company giving their data to Quandl and then in turn projecting their own returns with it?

## Consumer Spending
Email receipts are increasingly getting big. Crawl inboxes looking for a million Amazon sales. Like your local food market rewards card? Mine the market. Credit agency parter to see how people are spending their money. Anonymize it and agrregate it.

## Construction business intel
Whats being built? Stages of development each are in? What kind of HVAC, type of material, etc. How about all the dollar generals out there? How long will that go before they collapse? Take this and learn about the economy. Whats the state of affairs?

## Tesla 2017
Model 3's. How fast could they achieve the productions? Quandl boasts that they would be able to deduce when Tesla hits their targets before anyone else. How true were they Mr. O'leary?

## Quandl ROI
Plug "us" into your database and we start sending you money. Business has to be aware of risk. No laws broke, not doing wrong to their customers. Boy GDPR is right up that alley too. Anonymization of the data is crucial. We don't want to go into the limelight like facebook do we? Affend no one sell to everyone. 

## Its all a linear problem
How does Quandl bridge the gap from data sitting in "the wilderness" to the table at Tesla?

Objective funtions and assertions, number of constraints and inequality has to be linear, not quadratic or otherwise. Find the areas of feasability and infeasability, find the area of accuracy. Add in more equations to fine tune inital problem assertation. Add a rack into a network. Max power, min area of infeasability. Define Constraint. Order 2 to the n worst case. Best n^3
2000 problems only with adding in your linear equations? No big deal. NP problem. It gets bound. Its only a problem once we look at order in the millions. Reduce area of feasability by excluding sets because it does not meet the area of feasability. Maximize accuracy, minimize the exclusions process. Back to Tensors.

## The power of trading ultimate commodities
Most people willing to pay for these connectable algorithms to datasets want to break away from TCO with abnormally high return expectstions. 10x 20x means we can afford to gamble on lower accuracy in the algorithms when performing investments at scale. It becomes increasingly challenging when the commodit traded is manpower and fine tuning out the old ways, but think of a farmer. They work the land year after year. Spend countless hours studying soil samples, consulting their logs for crop rotation, assimilating amendment schedules, and fine tuning their harvest crop selections. What if that was all solved for them? Yeah, they fight it with I have worked this land for 4 decades, no one can tell me they know more than the one working it day in, day out. Yes we can with ML, AI, a short amount of training time, and a little math. But even this process too is manual labor. We have to socially engineer our features, feasability, and often at the least have to play a polical role in convincing others the algorithm will work. Go out and do it. Even smart people often cannot see your vision, fight against their own inhibitions, and eventually come around after the problem is clear enough to see the solution without fine tuned bifocals.  


